# 2026-03-10

Good morning! It's TUESDAY, March 10, 2026.

## Getting into your Virtual Machines

Go to https://class.hypertheory-labs.com/guacamole

Enter your username: (studentx) where x is the number assigned to you.

Enter the password you set yesterday.

**Note**: You should *not* get the second log in screen, the black one, but if you do, it's "student" (without a number), "Hypertheory_Training!" and no domain.
also, let me know if you DO get the black login screen, please. ;)

## Today

Minimal API Filters
Other Filters
Actually make some requests
    - get "test tokens"

Background Work
- Approaches
    - Timer / Channels
    - HostedService / Background Worker
    - What problem are we solving?
- Outbox / Inbox
- That notifications thing.


- OIDC/Oauth2 - these are what are called "shared language" relationships between services.
    - "If my code can run against this and I can replace that service with something else that implements that same shared language, that is awesome"


One approach to "versioning" - pretty rare, but rad.

- Create a derived media type:

GET /vendors 

Specification for the thing you are returning.


Troy Hunt - "Three ways version an API and they all suck"

- custom media type

- change the resource (url)
- change the authority (server)

    - gov.cuyahoga.count.us/tickets
    - taylorswift.com/tickets 

GET https://api2.company.com/employees/{id}
Accept: image/*



GET /v2/vendors
GET /v1/vendors/{id}/catalog-items
x-i-want: "drewversion"


GET /quoting/vendors

GET /claims/vendors




200 Ok
Content-type: application/michel+json

[
    {
        "id": "ieuieu",
        "name": "Microsoft",
       
    }
]

- Leaking data that should be protected.
- Cumulative performance hit.
- Middle-Aged Man Syndrome
    - they just get bigger and bigger and bigger.


application/pgr.vehicle+json

{
    "vin": 
}


GET /vendors/938938

200 Ok

{
    "status": "UnidentifiedRequest",
    "message": "no vendor with that id"
}

### Evolving (versioning APIs)

- You can add things to a response
- You cannot remove things, or change the meaning of things.



## TODO

- affected / monorepo (ZJ)
- yarp (CA) 


## Plan -

- Messaging 101 
- Distributed Messaging...
- Split the Vendors and Software endpoints.
- Yarp
- BFF