Good morning! It's WEDNESDAY, March 11, 2026.

## Getting into your Virtual Machines

Go to https://class.hypertheory-labs.com/guacamole

Enter your username: (studentx) where x is the number assigned to you.

Enter the password you set monday.

## Today

- Getting My Code
    - MessagingPatterns
    - SoftwareSolutionWeds
- Messaging Patterns Demo

## Software Center Refactor

We will take the Vendors endpoints out of the Software.Api and put it in a new Vendors.Api

- [Strangler Fig](https://martinfowler.com/bliki/StranglerFigApplication.html)
    - Leave the Vendors Where It Is
    - Introduce an Abstraction Layer
        - YARP
            - As Reverse Proxy
            - As Gateway
            - As Load Balancer
    - Create the new Project (Vendors.Api)
        - Create Tests (We'll skip this, but.. it is an important step)
        - Event Sourcing
            - Introduction to Event Sourcing (good resume builder, but also sets the stage for messaging later)
    - Messaging
        - We want to delete the endpoints for vendors in the Software.Api
        - What can go wrong?
        - Catalog Items needs to verify Vendor Identity
            - **Note** since these are both part of the same "App" (repo, same team) you *could* just share the database, IMO.
                - Generally, code that can be tested and deployed together can be shared, including databases (schema).
                - For educational purposes, though, we won't share databases.
        - Designing Messages
            - Commands?
            - Events?
            - Documents?
            - Pub/Sub?
        - Producer / Consumer
            - Verifying Vendor Existence when Adding a Catalog Item
        - What if ...
            - We had a rule that a vendor cannot be deleted if it "owns" any catalog items? (Catalog Items need removed first?)